docs/present.rst, before:

Life at this moment
-------------------

.. image:: _static/dachshund.jpg
    :align: right

My wife and I live in Cambridge, Massachusetts and I have recently returned to work at Harvard University after taking several months off to write, work on projects of my own, and spend time with friends and loved ones.

Things keeping me busy right now
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Improving my proficiency with Python for data analysis, visualization, and statistical modeling, most recently completing the courses `CS109a <https://harvard-iacs.github.io/2019-CS109A/>`_ and `APMTH 207 <https://am207.github.io/2018fall/>`_ offered through Harvard's School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.

- Rebuilding and customizing a vintage Dahon Classic III folding bike, originally built in 1987.

Strange But True Facts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. I am good with a chainsaw and have experience felling trees 36+ inches in diameter.
#. I can strip a bicycle down to its frame and bearings and rebuild it part-by-part.
#. I spent a year rappelling from of helicopters during my work as a wildland firefighter.

Commit message:

page(present): minor content and formatting revisions

docs/present.rst, after:

.. _present:

Life at this moment
-------------------

My wife and I live in Cambridge, Massachusetts and I have recently returned to work at Harvard University after taking several months off to write, work on projects of my own, and spend time with friends and loved ones.

Things keeping me busy right now
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Improving my proficiency with Python for data analysis, visualization, and statistical modeling:
    * most recently completing the courses `CS109a <https://harvard-iacs.github.io/2019-CS109A/>`_ and `APMTH 207 <https://am207.github.io/2018fall/>`_ offered through Harvard's School of Engineering and Applied Sciences,
    * and putting new skills to use in personal projects `on GitHub <https://github.com/sedelmeyer>`_.

2. Rebuilding and customizing `a vintage Dahon Classic III folding bike <https://bootiebike.com/dahon/dahon.htm>`_, originally built in 1987.

Strange But True Facts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image:: _static/skull_mask.jpg
    :align: right

* I am good with a chainsaw and have experience felling trees 36+ inches in diameter.
* I can strip a bicycle down to its frame and bearings and rebuild it part-by-part.
* I spent a year rappelling from of helicopters during my work as a wildland firefighter.

|

*Last revised: 2020-01-20*
