docs/articles/dahon-classic.rst, before:

Rebuilding a 1980's Dahon Classic III
=====================================

*Published: 2020-01-28  ( Last revised on 2020-02-20 )*

Background
----------

I was recently given a 1980's Dahon Classic III folding bike. The friend who gave it to me had been given the bike by a friend of his who, in turn, had acquired it cheaply. However, after realizing how much a bike shop wanted to charge her to reburbish and tune the bike, my friend's friend had passed it on to him. My friend had no time to rebuild a bike, so he passed it on to me.

It has been several years since I've taken on a bicycle project. There was a period in my life when I'd refurbish a couple bikes a year. I had acquired a strange love for stripping bikes down to their bearings and rebuilding them into new configurations. I was never a cyclist in the sense that I loved to go road riding or mountain biking, but I loved biking for transport and I loved building and rebuilding bikes. My specialty was late-1980's to mid-1990's steel bike frames and cycling technology of that era.

When I received the Dahon Classic from my friend it provided me an opportunity to delve back into this hobby. It, importantly, also provided me an opportunity to stop contemplating whether it would be worth purchasing a folding bike that I might be able to (a) keep at the office for use on midday or after-work excursions or (b) pack into the car on road trips. However, if I'm being honest, I had been contemplating this folding bike question for more than a decade. I was well aware that I would never act on this curiosity unless the right project bike came along. So it goes, I ended up with this Dahon Classic III, and now I will see if it is worth the work it takes to rebuild.

.. todo::
  Add 'figure' of bike as it was when I started the project

A record of this bike's unique traits
-------------------------------------

While this article logs my rebuilding of this bike, my true motivation for writing this is to provide a record of the unique specifications, measurements, and idosyncracies of the Dahon Classic III. For a model of bike so common as this one (cheap used Dahons of this era are typically easy to come by and they even appear to have attracted a cult following in parts of Southeast Asia), clear documentation regarding this bike's unique specifications is very difficult to find on the Internet. I did come by some forum discussions indicating that this was not always the case, and that there was someone who at one point written extensively about this bike. But it sounded like this person's site pages had vanished from existence some time ago.

Build experiences and important specifications
----------------------------------------------

To see a consolidated list of important specifications and measurements, you can jump to :ref:`the table <specs>` at the end of this article.

.. contents:: Sections
  :local:
  :depth: 1
  :backlinks: top

Wheels diameter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The wheels of the Dahon Classic are 16 inch. However, as things typically go with bicycle wheel sizing, actual wheel size measurements, when expressed in inches, are open to interpretation. This bike's 16 inch wheels are of the "decimal" sizing variety. The original tires that came on this bike's rims were labeled 16 x 1.75. This means they had an ISO bead seat diameter of 305 mm. This is important to note, because as of my writing of this article (early-2020), 305 mm rims and tires are hard to come by. Far more plentiful are rims and tires made for the "16 inch" standard diameter used by Brompton folding bikes and many recumbant bikes. The Brompton's 16-inch wheels are of the "fractional" sizing variety. Therefore, a Brompton tire will read 16 x 1 3/8, and its ISO bead seat diameter will be 349 mm. From what I could gather while researching this topic, there was a time when the 305 mm diameter was more common on small-wheeled bikes, thus providing more choice among tires and rims. The 349 mm diameter wheel was a bit harder to come by and was typically used on higher-end and sportier folding bikes and recumbants. The 349 mm rims were typically narrower and were designed for narrower and higher pressure performance tires. As it goes, most modern folding bikes are now designed with 20 inch tires. While there are still some modern 16 inch folders using the 305 mm rim, they are few and far between, and the 16 inch market is largely dominated by Brompton and recumbants designed for the sportier 349 mm rim. I suspect that, if I had been working on this project as recently as the late-2000's, there would have been a wider variety of 305 mm tires and rims available.

For a little more background on wheel sizing standards, an article well worth reading (as are most of his articles) is `Sheldon Brown's article on tire sizing`_.

Wheel design and quality
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The wheels on the Dahon Classic III are heavy.

Tire sizing and clearance
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Seatpost and shims
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Handlebar and stem
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Bottom bracket and cranks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Brakes, brake mounts, and pads
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Drivetrain and Sturmey-Archer hub
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Cable routing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Folding mechanics and joints
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ride quality and experiences
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. _specs:

Important specifications and measurements
-----------------------------------------

For useful reference, below is a table outlining the important measurements and specifications related to this bike frame:

.. list-table::
    :widths: auto
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Part
      - Measurement
      - Notes
    * - Wheel diameter
      - 16 x 1.75 (305 mm ISO)
      - The wheels are ISO 305 mm 16 inch wheels (i.e. decimal sized), not the slightly larger standard used on current Bromptons, which is ISO 349 mm (i.e. fractional sized). See `Sheldon Brown's article on tire sizing`_ for more details.
    * - Tire clearance  
      - XX tire width
      - The original tires that came with this bike were labeled 16 x 1.75 (expected to be 45 mm), but their actual mounted width was closer to 16 x 1.50 (38 mm). Due to limited front fork clearance, I needed to use a modern 16 x 1.50 or 38 mm width tire.
    * - Front hub width
      - 64 mm o.l.d.
      -

bottom bracket shell: ~68mm, english thread, 117mm axle
front dropouts: 64mm o.l.d.
rear forks: 110mm o.l.d.
wheel diameter: 16x1.75 (305)
seat post: 33.9mm lower tube, ???mm upper tube, ??? frame interior
stem tube: ???mm tube, 25.4mm handlebar clamp
front brake: ???mm caliper reach
rear break: ???mm caliper reach

.. _Sheldon Brown's article on tire sizing: https://sheldonbrown.com/tire-sizing.html

Commit message:

art(dahon): add first draft for tire sizing section

docs/articles/dahon-classic.rst, after:

Rebuilding a 1980's Dahon Classic III
=====================================

*Published: 2020-01-28  ( Last revised on 2020-02-20 )*

Background
----------

I was recently given a 1980's Dahon Classic III folding bike. The friend who gave it to me had been given the bike by a friend of his who, in turn, had acquired it cheaply. However, after realizing how much a bike shop wanted to charge her to reburbish and tune the bike, my friend's friend had passed it on to him. My friend had no time to rebuild a bike, so he passed it on to me.

It has been several years since I've taken on a bicycle project. There was a period in my life when I'd refurbish a couple bikes a year. I had acquired a strange love for stripping bikes down to their bearings and rebuilding them into new configurations. I was never a cyclist in the sense that I loved to go road riding or mountain biking, but I loved biking for transport and I loved building and rebuilding bikes. My specialty was late-1980's to mid-1990's steel bike frames and cycling technology of that era.

When I received the Dahon Classic from my friend it provided me an opportunity to delve back into this hobby. It, importantly, also provided me an opportunity to stop contemplating whether it would be worth purchasing a folding bike that I might be able to (a) keep at the office for use on midday or after-work excursions or (b) pack into the car on road trips. However, if I'm being honest, I had been contemplating this folding bike question for more than a decade. I was well aware that I would never act on this curiosity unless the right project bike came along. So it goes, I ended up with this Dahon Classic III, and now I will see if it is worth the work it takes to rebuild.

.. todo::
  Add 'figure' of bike as it was when I started the project

A record of this bike's unique traits
-------------------------------------

While this article logs my rebuilding of this bike, my true motivation for writing this is to provide a record of the unique specifications, measurements, and idosyncracies of the Dahon Classic III. For a model of bike so common as this one (cheap used Dahons of this era are typically easy to come by and they even appear to have attracted a cult following in parts of Southeast Asia), clear documentation regarding this bike's unique specifications is very difficult to find on the Internet. I did come by some forum discussions indicating that this was not always the case, and that there was someone who at one point written extensively about this bike. But it sounded like this person's site pages had vanished from existence some time ago.

Build experiences and important specifications
----------------------------------------------

To see a consolidated list of important specifications and measurements, you can jump to :ref:`the table <specs>` at the end of this article.

.. contents:: Sections
  :local:
  :depth: 1
  :backlinks: top

Wheels diameter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The wheels of the Dahon Classic are 16 inch. However, as things typically go with bicycle wheel sizing, actual wheel size measurements, when expressed in inches, are open to interpretation. This bike's 16 inch wheels are of the "decimal" sizing variety. The original tires that came on this bike's rims were labeled 16 x 1.75. This means they had an ISO bead seat diameter of 305 mm. This is important to note, because as of my writing of this article (early-2020), 305 mm rims and tires are hard to come by. Far more plentiful are rims and tires made for the "16 inch" standard diameter used by Brompton folding bikes and many recumbant bikes. The Brompton's 16-inch wheels are of the "fractional" sizing variety. Therefore, a Brompton tire will read 16 x 1 3/8, and its ISO bead seat diameter will be 349 mm. From what I could gather while researching this topic, there was a time when the 305 mm diameter was more common on small-wheeled bikes, thus providing more choice among tires and rims. The 349 mm diameter wheel was a bit harder to come by and was typically used on higher-end and sportier folding bikes and recumbants. The 349 mm rims were typically narrower and were designed for narrower and higher pressure performance tires. As it goes, most modern folding bikes are now designed with 20 inch tires. While there are still some modern 16 inch folders using the 305 mm rim, they are few and far between, and the 16 inch market is largely dominated by Brompton and recumbants designed for the sportier 349 mm rim. I suspect that, if I had been working on this project as recently as the late-2000's, there would have been a wider variety of 305 mm tires and rims available.

For a little more background on wheel sizing standards, an article well worth reading (as are most of his articles) is `Sheldon Brown's article on tire sizing`_.

Wheel design and quality
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The wheels on the Dahon Classic III are heavy.

Tire sizing and clearance
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When I acquired this bike, it still had its original checker patterned 16 X 1.75 XXXX brand tires on it. When I inspected these tires, I could see clear cracking along the tread in both tires, so I decided to replace them with a modern pair of puncture resistent touring/commuting tires. This is when I learned just how few tire companies manufactured versions of their more popular tires in 305 mm sizing. After a good deal of research, I ultimately found myself trying to decide between the 16 x 1.75 versions of Continental's  Ride Tour city tire and Schwalbe's Marathon tire. Both seemed to get good reviews and both had characteristics I desired. So, to save some cash, I ordered the Continental brand tires. It turns out however, that the 16 x 1.75 inch tires already on the Dahon were closer in size to 1.5 inches wide instead of the 1.75 inches indicated by the tire markings. In addition to this, no matter how many times I re-mounted the new Continental tires, I could never get them evenly mounted. Thus, when I spun the tires, there were 5-10 millimeters of wobble in the tires, up-and-down and side-to-side. Not only did these mounting issues lead me to question Continental's quality control, but the true 1.75 inch width of the new tires cause them aggressively rub the Dahon's fork while spinning. While a true 1.75 inch tire width should equate to 47 mm, the original XXX tires were XXX mm (closer to 1.5 inches) wide when fully inflated. Unfortunately, the Dahon Classic's frame and fork are just too tight a fit for a true 1.75 inch tire.

I decided to return the Continental tires and instead purchased a pair of 16 x 1.5 inch Schwalbe Marathon Racer tires that fit perfectly within the Dahon Classic frame and fork. These tires are also fabulous to ride.

There is a chance that I might have gotten away with a different brand of 1.75 inch width tires, particularly if they are undersized by the manufacturer. However, I didn't want to risk it. If you are feeling bold and want to attemp this, just beware. The Dahon's fork only offers XXX mm of width for clearance. You'll also need to know the hieght of the tire you plan to mount as well. This was a serious issue with the Continental I first attempted to use. While the fully inflated Continental was 47 mm wide when mounted on the Dahon's rims, it was more than 50 mm tall, causing the tire catch the bottom edge of the front brake caliper. Be warned. 

Seatpost and shims
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Handlebar and stem
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Bottom bracket and cranks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Brakes, brake mounts, and pads
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Drivetrain and Sturmey-Archer hub
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Cable routing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Folding mechanics and joints
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ride quality and experiences
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. _specs:

Important specifications and measurements
-----------------------------------------

For useful reference, below is a table outlining the important measurements and specifications related to this bike frame:

.. list-table::
    :widths: auto
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Part
      - Measurement
      - Notes
    * - Wheel diameter
      - 16 x 1.75 (305 mm ISO)
      - The wheels are ISO 305 mm 16 inch wheels (i.e. decimal sized), not the slightly larger standard used on current Bromptons, which is ISO 349 mm (i.e. fractional sized). See `Sheldon Brown's article on tire sizing`_ for more details.
    * - Tire clearance  
      - XX tire width
      - The original tires that came with this bike were labeled 16 x 1.75 (expected to be 45 mm), but their actual mounted width was closer to 16 x 1.50 (38 mm). Due to limited front fork clearance, I needed to use a modern 16 x 1.50 or 38 mm width tire.
    * - Front hub width
      - 64 mm o.l.d.
      -

bottom bracket shell: ~68mm, english thread, 117mm axle
front dropouts: 64mm o.l.d.
rear forks: 110mm o.l.d.
wheel diameter: 16x1.75 (305)
seat post: 33.9mm lower tube, ???mm upper tube, ??? frame interior
stem tube: ???mm tube, 25.4mm handlebar clamp
front brake: ???mm caliper reach
rear break: ???mm caliper reach

.. _Sheldon Brown's article on tire sizing: https://sheldonbrown.com/tire-sizing.html
